# Homework of week 6

## Chapter 3, P22

*Consider the GBN protocol with a sender window size of 4 and a sequence
number range of 1,024. Suppose that at time t, the next in-order packet
that the receiver is expecting has a sequence number of k. Assume that the
medium does not reorder messages. Answer the following questions:  
a. What are the possible sets of sequence numbers inside the sender’s
window at time t? Justify your answer.  
b. What are all possible values of the ACK field in all possible messages
currently propagating back to the sender at time t? Justify your answer.*

Answer a:

The sets can be one of the following:

1. [k, k + 3]
2. [k - 1, k + 2]
3. [k - 2, k + 1]
4. [k - 3, k]
5. [k - 4, k - 1]

For each possible option, the situation is:

1. ACK(k - 1) is received.
2. ACK(k - 2) is received but not any ACKs after that.
3. ACK(k - 3) is received but not any ACKs after that.
4. ACK(k - 4) is received but not any ACKs after that.
5. ACK(k - 5) is received but not any ACKs after that.

Answer b:

From answer a, all possible ACKs being propagated are:

1. ACK(k - 1)
2. ACK(k - 2)
3. ACK(k - 3)
4. ACK(k - 4)

## Chapter 3, P24

*Answer true or false to the following questions and briefly justify your
answer:  
a. With the SR protocol, it is possible for the sender to receive an ACK for a
packet that falls outside of its current window.  
b. With GBN, it is possible for the sender to receive an ACK for a packet
that falls outside of its current window.  
c. The alternating-bit protocol is the same as the SR protocol with a sender
and receiver window size of 1.  
d. The alternating-bit protocol is the same as the GBN protocol with a sender
and receiver window size of 1.*

Answer:

- a. True. Assume a window size of 1. Sender transmitted packet 0 and receiver
received then send ACK0. But it was delayed and exceed the timeout of sender,
making the sender to re-transmit packet 0. Then receiver send ACK0 (again).
When the 1st ACK arrives the window moves forward, and when the 2nd ACK arrives
the packet 0 is already outside of the window.
- b. True. The situation is nearly the same as the one described in answer a.
- c. True. The sender sends the next package only when it receives the ACK
of the previous one.
- d. True. The situation is nearly the same as the one described in answer c.

## Chapter 3, P26

*Consider transferring an enormous file of L bytes from Host A to Host B.
Assume an MSS of 536 bytes.  
a. What is the maximum value of L such that TCP sequence numbers are not
exhausted? Recall that the TCP sequence number field has 4 bytes.  
b. For the L you obtain in (a), find how long it takes to transmit the file.
Assume that a total of 66 bytes of transport, network, and data-link header
are added to each segment before the resulting packet is sent out over a
155 Mbps link. Ignore flow control and congestion control so A can pump
out the segments back to back and continuously.*

Answer:
- a. L = `4 294 967 296 bytes`, since the TCP sequence number field has 32 bits.
- b. Since 1 segment contains 536 bytes of data, it will take `2^32 / 536`, 
which is `8012999` segments to fully transmit the file, the total amount of data
will be `8012999 * (536 + 66) = 4823825398` bytes. Total transmit time is
`4823825398 * 8 / (155 * 1024 * 1024) = 237.44 seconds`.
