# Chapter 3



> P22:
>
> 1. Consider the GBN protocol with a sender window size of 4 and a sequence number range of 1,024. Suppose that at time *t*, the next in-order packet that the receiver is expecting has a sequence number of *k*. Assume that the medium does not reorder messages. Answer the following questions:
>    1. What are the possible sets of sequence numbers inside the sender’s window at time *t*? Justify your answer.
>    2. What are all possible values of the ACK field in all possible messages currently propagating back to the sender at time *t*? Justify your answer.

Given data:
		N=Window size = 4
		Range of sequence number = 1024	

Case 1: Assume receiver is k and acknowledged all the k-1 packets. The sender's
window will be in the range of [ k, k+N-1] sequence numbers
	

Case 2: If the sender's window will be in the range of [ k-N, k-1] sequence  	numbers.The sender's window will be in the range of [ k-N, k-1] sequence numbers.So, the possible sets of sequence numbers inside the sender's  window at time t are in the range [k-N, k].



(b)
The acknowledgement(ACK) field will be [ k-N, k-1]. The sender sent all the k-N
packets ACK less than the n-N-1 ACK
So, all possible values of the ACK field in all messages currently range between
k-N-1 and k-1.

> P24 :
>
> 1. Answer true or false to the following questions and briefly justify your answer:
>    1. With the SR protocol, it is possible for the sender to receive an ACK for a packet that falls outside of its current window.
>    2. With GBN, it is possible for the sender to receive an ACK for a packet that falls outside of its current window.
>    3. The alternating-bit protocol is the same as the SR protocol with a sender and receiver window size of 1.
>    4. The alternating-bit protocol is the same as the GBN protocol with a sender and receiver window size of 1.

a.True

Suppose the sender has a window size of 3 and sends packets 1, 2, 3 at t0 . Att1 (t1 > t0) the receiver ACKS 1, 2, 3. At t2 (t2 > t1) the sender times out andresends 1, 2, 3. At t3 the receiver receives the duplicates and re-acknowledges 1, 2,3. At t4 thesender receives the ACKs that the receiver sent at t1 and advances itswindow to 4, 5, 6. At t5 the sender receives the  ACKs 1, 2, 3 the receiver sent at t2 .These ACKs are outside its window.

b.True

By essentially the same scenario as in (a)

c.True

d.True

Note that with a window size of 1, SR, GBN, and the alternating bit protocol arefunctionally equivalent. The window size of 1 precludes the possibility of out-
2of-orderpackets (within the window). A cumulative ACK is just an ordinary ACK in thissituation, since it can only refer to the single packet within the window.

> P26;
>
> 1. Consider transferring an enormous file of *L* bytes from Host A to Host B. Assume an MSS of 536 bytes.
>    1. What is the maximum value of *L* such that TCP sequence numbers are not exhausted? Recall that the TCP sequence number field has 4 bytes.
>    2. For the *L* you obtain in (a), find how long it takes to transmit the file. Assume that a total of 66 bytes of transport, network, and data-link header are added to each segment before the resulting packet is sent out over a 155 Mbps link. Ignore flow control and congestion control so A can pump out the segments back to back and continuously.

a. The size of TCP sequence number field = 4 bytes=4*8 bits=32 bits.

​	So, the sequence numbers of bits are 2^32

​	The maximum file size sent from Host A to Host B representable by 2^32Bytes

b.Maximum segment size = 536bytes

Segments data = 2^32/536 = 8012999

Total header fields = 66bytes;

Total number of bytes through the 155Mbps link = 8012999*66bytes = 528857934 bytes

Transmitted data = (2^32+528857934) = 4.824*10^9 bytes

tramsmit time = 4.824*10^9*8bits/155*10^6bps = 249s