## P22

### Problem

Consider the GBN protocol with a sender window size of 4 and a sequence number range of 1024. Suppose that at time t, the next in-order packet that the receiver is expecting has a sequence number of k. Assume that the medium does not reorder messages. Answer the following questions:

a. What are the possible sets of sequence numbers inside the sender's window at time t? Justify your answer.

b. What are all possible values of the ACK field in all possible messages currently propagating back to the sender at time t? Justify your answer?

### solution

a)Case 1:If all ACKs have been received by sender,the sender's window is[k,k+3];

   Case 2:If none of ACKs has been received ,the sender's window id[k-4,k-1];

b)If none of ACKs have been received by the  sender, ACK messages with values of [k-4,k-1] may propagate back. It must  be the case that the sender has already received an ACK for k-5,so the range can be from k-5 to k-1. 



## P24

### Problem

Answer true or false to the following questions and briefly justify your answer:

a. With the SR protocol, it's possible for the sender to receive an ACK for a packet that falls outside the current window

b. With GBN, it's possible for the sender to receive an ACK for a packet that falls outside of its current window.

c. The alternating-bit protocol is the same as the SR protocol with a sender and a receiver window size of 1

d. The alternating-bit protocol is the same as the GBN protocol with a sender and a receiver window size of 1

### solution

a)True

b)True$$

c)True

d)True



## P26

### Problem

Consider transferring an enormous file of L bytes from Host A to Host B. Assume an MSS of 536 bytes

a. What is the maximum value of L such that TCP sequence numbers are not exhausted? Recall that the TCP sequence number field has 4 bytes

b. For the L you obtain in (a), find how long it takes to transmit the file. Assume that a total of 66 bytes of transport, network, and data-link header

### solution

a)Max number :$2^{32}=4.19$Gbytes

b)$2^{32}/536=8012999$,66 bytes of header get added to each segment giving a total of 528857934 bytes of header

    Total number:$4.824*10^9$  bytes,It will take 249s to transmit.


