> P22. Consider the GBN protocol with a sender window size of 4 and a sequence  number range of 1,024. Suppose that at time t, the next in-order packet  that the receiver is expecting has a sequence number of k. Assume that the  medium does not reorder messages. Answer the following questions: 
>
> a. What are the possible sets of sequence numbers inside the sender’s  window at time t? Justify your answer. 
>
> b. What are all possible values of the ACK field in all possible messages  currently propagating back to the sender at time t? Justify your answer.

a. The receive is expecting has a sequence number of k, so the receiver has received and acknowledged all the k-1 packets.

(1) If the ACK k-1 is received by the sender, the sets of sequence numbers inside the sender’s window at time t is [k,k+3];

(2) If the receiver has acknowledged k-4, k-3, k-2, k-1 but the sender has not received ACK k-4, the sets of sequence numbers inside the sender’s window at time t is [k-4,k-1];

So, the possible sets:

[k-4,k-1] [k-3,k] [k-2,k+1] [k-1,k+2] [k,k+3]



b. (1) If the sender received ACK very slowly, extremely, and the receiver has acknowledged k-4, k-3, k-2, k-1 and has sent ACK k-4 to ACK k-1, the possible values of the ACK field in all possible messages  currently propagating back to the sender at time t is k-4.

(2) If the sender received very fast, extremely, the possible values of the ACK field in all possible messages  currently propagating back to the sender at time t is k-1.

So, the possible values:

k-4, k-3, k-2, k-1

***

> P24. Answer true or false to the following questions and briefly justify your  answer: 
>
> a. With the SR protocol, it is possible for the sender to receive an ACK for a  packet that falls outside of its current window. 
>
> b. With GBN, it is possible for the sender to receive an ACK for a packet  that falls outside of its current window. 
>
> c. The alternating-bit protocol is the same as the SR protocol with a sender and receiver window size of 1. 
>
> d. The alternating-bit protocol is the same as the GBN protocol with a sender and receiver window size of 1

a. Yes. Suppose that packet k has been sent, the receiver acknowledged it and sent ACK k. But the sender has not received ACK k and packet is resent by the sender because of timeout. That is to say the sender will receive 2 ACK k. And then the sender received the first ACK k, and the sender’s window moved. So when the second ACK k arrived, it fell outside of the sender’s current window.

b. Yes. Same to a.

c. Yes.

d. Yes.

***

> P26. Consider transferring an enormous file of L bytes from Host A to Host B.  Assume an MSS of 536 bytes. 
>
> a. What is the maximum value of L such that TCP sequence numbers are not  exhausted? Recall that the TCP sequence number field has 4 bytes. 
>
> b. For the L you obtain in (a), find how long it takes to transmit the file.  Assume that a total of 66 bytes of transport, network, and data-link header  are added to each segment before the resulting packet is sent out over a  155 Mbps link. Ignore flow control and congestion control so A can pump  out the segments back to back and continuously.

a. The maximum value: 2<sup>32</sup> byte

b. Total Header = (2<sup>32</sup>/536 )* 66 = 528857934 byte

​	time = (528857934+2<sup>32</sup>) / (155 Mbps) =249 s.

