## Week7 Homework

### Chapter 3 Problem 22

+ **question:**
+ Consider the GBN protocol with a sender window size of 4 and a sequence number range of 1,024. Suppose that at time *t*, the next in-order packet that the receiver is expecting has a sequence number of *k*. Assume that the medium does not reorder messages. Answer the following questions:
    + a. What are the possible sets of sequence numbers inside the sender’s window at time *t*? Justify your answer.
    + b. What are all possible values of the ACK field in all possible messages currently propagating back to the sender at time *t*? Justify your answer.

+ **Answer:**
    + a. The possible sets of sequence is {k-4,k-3,k-2,k-1},{k-3,k-2,k-1,k}, {k-2,k-1,k,k+1}, {k-1,k,k+1,k+2}, {k,k+1,k+2,k+3}. 
        The next in-order packet that the receiver is expecting has a sequence number of *k*, and it is means that the *k* packet is not be ACK and the *k-1* has been ACK. So the sender's windows of at time should include of after *k-1* and before or include *k*.
    + b. The possible values of the ACK field is k-5,k-4, k-3, k-2, k-1.
        In (a), we know the possible sender's windows and the possible values is must be not smaller than the ACK field that senders has been received and smaller than *k* that is no been acknowledged by receiver.



### Chapter 3 Problem 24

+ **question:**
+ Answer true or false to the following questions and briefly justify your answer:
    + a. With the SR protocol, it is possible for the sender to receive an ACK for a packet that falls outside of its current window.
    + b. With GBN, it is possible for the sender to receive an ACK for a packet that falls outside of its current window.
    + c. The alternating-bit protocol is the same as the SR protocol with a sender and receiver window size of 1.
    + d. The alternating-bit protocol is the same as the GBN protocol with a sender and receiver window size of 1.

+ **Answer:**
    + a. Ture. Suppose the sender has a window whose size is 4, and at t1 sender send packet 0,1,2,3; at t2, the receiver receiver the packets and send ACKs 0,1,2,3; at t3, sender times out and resend packet 0,1,2,3; at t4, sender receive the ACKs 0,1,2,3 and advance window to 4,5,6,7; at t5, the receiver receiver the packets sent at t3 and send ACKs 0,1,2,3; at t6, sender receive the ACKs 0,1,2,3 which are out of the sender's window.
    + b. Ture. Suppose the sender has a window whose size is 4, and at t1 sender send packet 0,1,2,3; at t2, the receiver receiver the packets and send ACKs 0,1,2,3; at t3, sender times out and resend packet 0,1,2,3; at t4, sender receive the ACKs 0,1,2,3 and advance window to 4,5,6,7; at t5, the receiver receiver the packets sent at t3 and send ACKs 3,3,3,3; at t6, sender receive the ACK 3 which is out of the sender's window.
    + c. Ture. Ture. With the window size of 1, SR protocol is the same as the alternating-bit protocol. Because, for the SR protocol with the window size of 1, the sender only send one packet at the same time, and couldn't send next packet at the sender receive a until receive the corresponding and not corrupted  ACK and the receiver only receive the expected packet, send the corresponding ACK when receive a corrected packet, send the last ACK when receive a uncorrected packed. (Through, when the receiver receive a corrupt packet, the alternating-bit receiver send the last ACK but the SR protocol receiver ignore the corrupted packet.) That's the same as the alternating-bit protocol in whole.
    + d. Ture. With the window size of 1, GBN protocol is the same as the alternating-bit protocol. Because, for the GBN protocol with the window size of 1, the sender only send one packet at the same time, and couldn't send next packet at the sender receive a until receive the corresponding and not corrupted  ACK and the receiver only receive the expected packet, send the corresponding ACK when receive a corrected packet, send the last ACK when receive a uncorrected packed. That's the same as the alternating-bit protocol.



### Chapter 3 Problem 26

+ **question:**
+ Consider transferring an enormous file of *L* bytes from Host A to Host B. Assume an MSS of 536 bytes.
    + a. What is the maximum value of *L* such that TCP sequence numbers are not exhausted? Recall that the TCP sequence number field has 4 bytes.
    + b. For the *L* you obtain in (a), find how long it takes to transmit the file. Assume that a total of 66 bytes of transport, network, and data-link header are added to each segment before the resulting packet is sent out over a 155 Mbps link. Ignore flow control and congestion control so A can pump out the segments back to back and continuously.

+ **Answer:**
    + a.  There are 2 ^ 32 = 4,294,967,296 sequence numbers, so the maximum value of L is 2 ^ 32 Bytes.
    + b. (2^32 Bytes / 536 Bytes) * (536+66) bytes / 155Mbps = 249s

