# Homework week7  
### Mar 28  

Chapter 3  
- P22. Consider the GBN protocol with a sender window size of 4 and a sequence number range of 1,024. Suppose that at time t, the next in-order packet that the receiver is expecting has a sequence number of k. Assume that the medium does not reorder messages. Answer the following questions:  
a. What are the possible sets of sequence numbers inside the sender's
window at time t? Justify your answer.  
b. What are all possible values of the ACK field in all possible messages currently propagating back to the sender at time t? Justify your answer.  

- Solution:  
a.  
case 1: If the sender has received ACKs of all the packets before k, the sequence number inside the sender window is k, k+1, k+2, k+3.  
case 2: If the sender doesn't receive ACK of packet k-4,he sequence number inside the sender window is k-4, k-3, k-2, k-1.  
case 3: If the sender only receive ACK of packet k-4, the sequence number inside the sender window is k-3, k-2, k-1, k.  
case 4: If the sender receive ACK of packet k-4 and k-3, the sequence number inside the sender window is k-2, k-1, k, k+1.  
case 5: If the sender receive ACK of packet k-3 and k-2, the sequence number inside the sender window is k-1, k, k+1, k+2.  
b.  
When receiver is expecting packet k, it indicates the receiver has received all packets before k. The minimum sequence insider the sender window is k-4, k-3, k-2, k-1. So the possible messages currently propagating back to the sender at time t are ACK k-4, k-3, k-2, k-1.  

- P24. Answer true or false to the following questions and briefly justify your answer:  
a. With the SR protocol, it is possible for the sender to receive an ACK for a packet that falls outside of its current window.  
b. With GBN, it is possible for the sender to receive an ACK for a packet
that falls outside of its current window.  
c. The alternating-bit protocol is the same as the SR protocol with a sender
and receiver window size of 1.  
d. The alternating-bit protocol is the same as the GBN protocol with a sender and receiver window size of 1.  

- Solution:  
a. True. Suppose the sender has a window size of 3 and sends packets 1, 2, 3 at t0 . The receiver receives the 3 packets but the ACKs are blocked. At t1 the sender times out and resends 1, 2, 3. The receiver receives the duplicates and re-acknowledges 1, 2, 3. The sender receives the first ACKs that the receiver sent and advances its window to 4, 5, 6. Then the sender receives the second ACKs 1, 2, 3. These ACKs are outside its window.  
b. True. The same scenario as a.  
c. True.  
d. True.  



- P26. Consider transferring an enormous file of L bytes from Host A to Host B. Assume an MSS of 536 bytes.  
a. What is the maximum value of L such that TCP sequence numbers are not
exhausted? Recall that the TCP sequence number field has 4 bytes.  
b. For the L you obtain in (a), find how long it takes to transmit the file.
Assume that a total of 66 bytes of transport, network, and data-link header
are added to each segment before the resulting packet is sent out over a
155 Mbps link. Ignore flow control and congestion control so A can pump
out the segments back to back and continuously.  

- Solution:  
a.  
The sequence field has 4*8 = 32 bits, which means at most 2^32 bytes can be sent. So L is 2^32 bytes.  
b.  
(ceil(2^32/536) * 66 + 2^32) * 8 / (155 * 2^20) = 449ms.

