Homework

[TOC]

### Question 01 Chapter 3 Problem 22

Consider the GBN protocol with a sender window size of 4 and a sequence number range of 1,024. Suppose that at time *t*, the next in-order packet that the receiver is expecting has a sequence number of *k*. Assume that the medium does not reorder messages. Answer the following questions:

a. What are the possible sets of sequence numbers inside the sender’s window at time *t*? Justify your answer.

b. What are all possible values of the ACK field in all possible messages currently propagating back to the sender at time *t*? Justify your answer.

answer:

a. There are these possibilities that 

​    k-4,k-3,k-2,k-1;  k-3,k-2,k-1,k;  k-2,k-1,k,k+1;  k-1,k,k+1,k+2;  k,k+1,k+2,k+3.

​    For the receiver is requesting k, the packet before k must have been sent successfully, so the sending  window must have sent the packet[k-4, k-1].

​    For the receiver is requesting k, then the packet with the largest serial number must have k and get ACK.

​    Therefore, the possibilities are included between [k-4, k-1] and [k, k+3].

b. All [k-4, K-1] groups must be ACKS. If the k packet has a return message, the return message for the k packet must be NAK, but not for the packet after k.  For requesting k, then the packets before k must be received successfully. If the return message is on the link, it must be ACK. But the return message of the group k must be NAK. Whether the return message of the k group is NAK does not matter.  



### Question 02 Chapter 3 Problem 24

Answer true or false to the following questions and briefly justify your answer:

a. With the SR protocol, it is possible for the sender to receive an ACK for a packet that falls outside of its current window.

b. With GBN, it is possible for the sender to receive an ACK for a packet that falls outside of its current window.

c. The alternating-bit protocol is the same as the SR protocol with a sender and receiver window size of 1.

d. The alternating-bit protocol is the same as the GBN protocol with a sender and receiver window size of 1.

answer:

a. True. Consider the case of timeout retransmissions, the packet may be resent several times due to timeout, so it can also get multiple ACKS. The timed-out ACK may be received by the sender later, and the sequence number may not be in the window when it arrives.  

b. True. No matter using the SR protocol or using GBN, the situation is as the same.

c. True. According to the protocol ARQ, when the sender and receiver window size is 1, each group has to wait to receive an ACK.

d. True. No matter using the SR protocol or using GBN, the situation is as the same.



### Question 03 Chapter 3 Problem 26

Consider transferring an enormous file of *L* bytes from Host A to Host B. Assume an MSS of 536 bytes.

a. What is the maximum value of *L* such that TCP sequence numbers are not exhausted? Recall that the TCP sequence number field has 4 bytes.

b. For the *L* you obtain in (a), find how long it takes to transmit the file. Assume that a total of 66 bytes of transport, network, and data-link header are added to each segment before the resulting packet is sent out over a 155 Mbps link. Ignore flow control and congestion control so A can pump out the segments back to back and continuously.

answer:

a. Noticing that TCP is byte stream numbered, so the maximum value of L is 2^32 byte.

b. Let N be MSS.

N = ⌈2^32/536⌉= 8012999

General head = 66 * N

General bytes = 2^32 + General head

t = General bytes/ 155Mbps = 249s







