p22:

a) Here we have a window size of N=3.  

Suppose the receiver has received packet k-1, and has ACKed that and all other preceding packets.  If all of these ACK's have been received by sender, then sender's window is [k, k+N-1].  

Suppose none of the ACKs have been received at the sender.  In this case, the sender's window contains k-1 and the N packets up to and including k-1.  The sender's window is [k-N,k-1]. 

By these arguments, the senders window is of size 3.

b) If the receiver is waiting for packet k, then it has received (and ACKed) packet k-1 and the N-1 packets before that.

If none of those N ACKs have been yet received by the sender, then ACK messages with values of [k-N,k-1] may still be propagating back. Because the sender has sent packets [k-N, k-1], the sender has already received an ACK for k-N-1. Once the receiver has sent an ACK for k-N-1 it will never send an ACK that is less that k-N-1.  Thus the range of in-flight ACK values can range from k-N-1 to k-1. 

p24:

a) True. The following is an example. 

Suppose the sender has a window size of 3 and sends packets 1, 2, 3 at $t_0$. At $t_1$ the receiver ACKS 1, 2, 3. At $t_2$  the sender times out and resends 1, 2, 3.  At $t_3$ the receiver receives the duplicates and re-acknowledges 1, 2, 3. At $t_4$ the sender receives the ACKs that the receiver sent at $t_1$ and advances its window to 4, 5, 6.  At $t_5$ the sender receives the ACKs 1, 2, 3 the receiver sent at $t_2$. These ACKs are outside its window.

b) True. By essentially the same scenario as in (a).

c) True. 

d) True. 

Justify c) and d):

Note that with a window size of 1, SR, GBN, and the alternating bit protocol are  functionally equivalent. The window size of 1 precludes the possibility of out-of-order packets (within the window). A cumulative ACK is just an ordinary ACK in this situation, since it can only refer to the single packet within the window.


p26:



a) There are $2^{32}$ possible sequence numbers.

The sequence number does not increment by one with each segment. Rather, it increments by the number of bytes of data sent. So the size of the MSS is irrelevant -- the maximum size file that can be sent from A to B is simply the number of bytes representable by $2^{32}=4.19GB$.

b) The number of segments is $[2^{32}/536]=8,012,999$. 66 bytes of header get added to each segment giving a total of 528,857,934 bytes of header. The total number of bytes transmitted is $2^{32}+528,857,934=4.824*10^9$ B.

Thus it would take 249 seconds to transmit the file over a 155~Mbps link.