#### P 22

<font color="gray">Consider the GBN protocol with a sender window size of 4 and a sequence  number range of 1,024. Suppose that at time t, the next in-order packet  that the receiver is expecting has a sequence number of k. Assume that the  medium does not reorder messages. Answer the following questions: </font>

<font color="gray"> a. What are the possible sets of sequence numbers inside the sender’s  window at time t? Justify your answer. </font>

1. k , k+1, k+2 , k+3 
2. k-1 , k , k+1 , k+2
3. k-2 , k-1 , k , k+1 
4. k-3 , k-2 , k-1 , k 



<font color="gray"> b. What are all possible values of the ACK field in all possible messages  currently propagating back to the sender at time t? Justify your answer.</font>

1. no ACK message

2. k-1

3. k-2 , k-1

4. k-3 , k-2 , k-1

   

#### P 24

<font color="gray">Answer true or false to the following questions and briefly justify your  answer:</font>

<font color="gray"> a.  With the SR protocol, it is possible for the sender to receive an ACK for a  packet that falls outside of its current window.</font>

True. If ACK message from the receiver arrived at the sender too late, the sender might resend the message and thus the receiver will send two same ACK messages and the later one will falls outside of its current window.



<font color="gray"> b.  With GBN, it is possible for the sender to receive an ACK for a packet  that falls outside of its current window.</font>

True. When something wrong happened during the transmission and receiver doesn't receive a message expected, receiver will produce a repeated ACK message, but for the sender, the corresponding block is moved away from the window.



<font color="gray"> c. The alternating-bit protocol is the same as the SR protocol with a sender  and receiver window size of 1.</font>

True. 



<font color="gray"> d. The alternating-bit protocol is the same as the GBN protocol with a sender  and receiver window size of 1.</font>

True.



#### P 26

<font color="gray"> Consider transferring an enormous file of L bytes from Host A to Host B.  Assume an MSS of 536 bytes.</font>

<font color="gray"> a. What is the maximum value of L such that TCP sequence numbers are not  exhausted? Recall that the TCP sequence number field has 4 bytes. </font>

2<sup>32</sup>



<font color="gray">b. For the L you obtain in (a), find how long it takes to transmit the file.  Assume that a total of 66 bytes of transport, network, and data-link header  are added to each segment before the resulting packet is sent out over a  155 Mbps link. Ignore flow control and congestion control so A can pump  out the segments back to back and continuously.</font>

In order to transmit the file there have to be at least:
2<sup>32</sup>/536+1=8012999 segments

The size of a segment is 536+66=602 bytes

Total Time=(8012999×602)B/155Mbps=8012999×602×8/155000000=249s



