# 2020302111389_王楚 _第七周作业提交



## P22

> Consider the GBN protocol with a sender window size of 4 and a sequence number range of 1024. Suppose that at time t, the next in-order packet that the receiver is expecting has a sequence number of k. Assume that the medium does not reorder messages. Answer the following questions:
>
> a. What are the possible sets of sequence numbers inside the sender's window at time t? Justify your answer.
>
> b. What are all possible values of the ACK field in all possible messages currently propagating back to the sender at time t? Justify your answer?

a. The sender’s window will be in the range of [ k, k+3] sequence numbers when all the k-1 acknowledgements have been received without loss.If the sender does not receive any of the acknowledgements, then the sender’s window will be in the range of [ k-4, k-1] sequence numbers.

b. all possible values of the ACK field in all messages currently propagating back to the sender at time t are in the range of ACK values and they will be in range between k-4-1 and k-1.



## P24

> Answer true or false to the following questions and briefly justify your answer:
>
> a. With the SR protocol, it's possible for the sender to receive an ACK for a packet that falls outside the current window
>
> b. With GBN, it's possible for the sender to receive an ACK for a packet that falls outside of its current window.
>
> c. The alternating-bit protocol is the same as the SR protocol with a sender and a receiver window size of 1
>
> d. The alternating-bit protocol is the same as the GBN protocol with a sender and a receiver window size of 1

a.true b.true c.true d.true



## P26

> Consider transferring an enormous file of L bytes from Host A to Host B. Assume an MSS of 536 bytes
>
> a. What is the maximum value of L such that TCP sequence numbers are not exhausted? Recall that the TCP sequence number field has 4 bytes
>
> b. For the L you obtain in (a), find how long it takes to transmit the file. Assume that a total of 66 bytes of transport, network, and data-link header are added to each segment before the resulting packet is sent out over a  155 Mbps link. Ignore flow control and congestion control so A can pump  out the segments back to back and continuously

a)  There are approximately  2^32 = 4,294,967,296 possible number of the sequence. This number of the sequence does not increase by one with every number of sequences but by byte number of data transferred. Therefore, the MSS size is insignificant. Thus, it can be inferred that the maximum L value is representable by 2^32 ≈ 4.19 Gbytes.

 b)  ceil(2^32 / 536) = 8,012,999 The segment number is 66 bytes of header joined to every segment to get a cumulative sum of 528,857,934 bytes of header. Therefore, overall number of bytes sent will be 2^32 + 528,857,934 =  4.824 × 10^9 bytes.  Thus, we can conclude that the total time taken to send the file will be 249 seconds over a 155~Mbps link. 