# <center> 计算机网络 </center> #
## 第九周作业 ##



>  <strong>P1</strong> Consider the network below.<br>
a. Show the forwarding table in router A, such that all traffic destined to host 
H3 is forwarded through interface 3.<br>
b. Can you write down a forwarding table in router A, such that all traffic
from H1 destined to host H3 is forwarded through interface 3, while all 
traffic from H2 destined to host H3 is forwarded through interface 4? 
(Hint: This is a trick question.)<br><br>
<strong>
a. <br>Host: H3 <br>
Interface: 3
<br>
b. 不能，因为转发的接口只跟数据的目的地有关<br>

</strong>

><strong>P4</strong>Consider the switch shown below. Suppose that all datagrams have the same 
fixed length, that the switch operates in a slotted, synchronous manner, and 
that in one time slot a datagram can be transferred from an input port to an 
output port. The switch fabric is a crossbar so that at most one datagram can 
be transferred to a given output port in a time slot, but different output ports 
can receive datagrams from different input ports in a single time slot. What is 
the minimal number of time slots needed to transfer the packets shown from 
input ports to their output ports, assuming any input queue scheduling order 
you want (i.e., it need not have HOL blocking)? What is the largest number 
of slots needed, assuming the worst-case scheduling order you can devise, 
assuming that a non-empty input queue is never idle?<br><br>

<strong>
三个时隙<br>
第一个时隙：顶部发送X，中间发送Y<br>
第二个时隙：中间发送X，底部发送Y<br>
第三个时隙：底部发送Z<br>
</strong>

><strong>P6</strong>Consider the switch shown below.<br> a. Assuming FIFO service, indicate the time at which packets 2 through 
12 each leave the queue. For each packet, what is the delay between its 
arrival and the beginning of the slot in which it is transmitted? What is the 
average of this delay over all 12 packets?<br>
b. Now assume a priority service, and assume that odd-numbered packets 
are high priority, and even-numbered packets are low priority. Indicate the 
time at which packets 2 through 12 each leave the queue. For each packet, 
what is the delay between its arrival and the beginning of the slot in which 
it is transmitted? What is the average of this delay over all 12 packets?<br>
c. Now assume round robin service. Assume that packets 1, 2, 3, 6, 11, and 
12 are from class 1, and packets 4, 5, 7, 8, 9, and 10 are from class 2. 
Indicate the time at which packets 2 through 12 each leave the queue. For 
each packet, what is the delay between its arrival and its departure? What 
is the average delay over all 12 packets?<br>
d. Now assume weighted fair queueing (WFQ) service. Assume that oddnumbered packets are from class 1, and even-numbered packets are from 
class 2. Class 1 has a WFQ weight of 2, while class 2 has a WFQ weight 
of 1. Note that it may not be possible to achieve an idealized WFQ schedule as described in the text, so indicate why you have chosen the particular packet to go into service at each time slot. For each packet what is the 
delay between its arrival and its departure? What is the average delay over 
all 12 packets?<br>
e. What do you notice about the average delay in all four cases (FIFO, RR, 
priority, and WFQ)?<br><br>

<strong>
a.<br>
- 包名 到达时间 离开时间 滞留时间<br>
- 1&emsp;&emsp;&emsp; 0 &emsp;&emsp;&emsp;0 &emsp;&emsp;&emsp;0<br>
- 2 &emsp;&emsp;&emsp;0 &emsp;&emsp;&emsp;1 &emsp;&emsp;&emsp;1<br>
- 3 &emsp;&emsp;&emsp;1 &emsp;&emsp;&emsp;2 &emsp;&emsp;&emsp;1<br>
- 4 &emsp;&emsp;&emsp;1 &emsp;&emsp;&emsp;3 &emsp;&emsp;&emsp;2<br>
- 5 &emsp;&emsp;&emsp;3 &emsp;&emsp;&emsp;5 &emsp;&emsp;&emsp;2<br>
- 6 &emsp;&emsp;&emsp;2 &emsp;&emsp;&emsp;4 &emsp;&emsp;&emsp;2<br>
- 7 &emsp;&emsp;&emsp;3 &emsp;&emsp;&emsp;6 &emsp;&emsp;&emsp;3<br>
- 8 &emsp;&emsp;&emsp;5 &emsp;&emsp;&emsp;7 &emsp;&emsp;&emsp;2<br>
- 9 &emsp;&emsp;&emsp;5 &emsp;&emsp;&emsp;8 &emsp;&emsp;&emsp;3<br>
- 10 &emsp;&emsp;&emsp;7 &emsp;&emsp;&emsp;9 &emsp;&emsp;&emsp;2<br>
- 11 &emsp;&emsp;&emsp;8 &emsp;&emsp;&emsp;10 &emsp;&emsp;&emsp;2<br>
- 12 &emsp;&emsp;&emsp;8 &emsp;&emsp;&emsp;11 &emsp;&emsp;&emsp;3<br>
平均滞留时间为（1+1+2+2+2+3+2+2+2+2+3）/12=1.92<br>

b.<br>
- 包名 到达时间 离开时间 滞留时间<br>
- 1&emsp;&emsp;&emsp; 0 &emsp;&emsp;&emsp;0 &emsp;&emsp;&emsp;0<br>
- 2 &emsp;&emsp;&emsp;0 &emsp;&emsp;&emsp;2 &emsp;&emsp;&emsp;2<br>
- 3 &emsp;&emsp;&emsp;1 &emsp;&emsp;&emsp;1&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;0<br>
- 4 &emsp;&emsp;&emsp;1 &emsp;&emsp;&emsp;6 &emsp;&emsp;&emsp;5<br>
- 5 &emsp;&emsp;&emsp;3 &emsp;&emsp;&emsp;3 &emsp;&emsp;&emsp;0<br>
- 6 &emsp;&emsp;&emsp;2 &emsp;&emsp;&emsp;7 &emsp;&emsp;&emsp;5<br>
- 7 &emsp;&emsp;&emsp;3 &emsp;&emsp;&emsp;4 &emsp;&emsp;&emsp;1<br>
- 8 &emsp;&emsp;&emsp;5 &emsp;&emsp;&emsp;9&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;4<br>
- 9 &emsp;&emsp;&emsp;5 &emsp;&emsp;&emsp;5&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;0<br>
- 10 &emsp;&emsp;&emsp;7 &emsp;&emsp;&emsp;10 &emsp;&emsp;&emsp;3<br>
- 11 &emsp;&emsp;&emsp;8 &emsp;&emsp;&emsp;8&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;0<br>
- 12 &emsp;&emsp;&emsp;8 &emsp;&emsp;&emsp;11 &emsp;&emsp;&emsp;3<br>
平均滞留时间为（ 0+2+0+5+1+5+0+4+0+3+0+3）/12=1.92<br>
c.<br>
- 包名 到达时间 离开时间 滞留时间<br>
- 1&emsp;&emsp;&emsp; 0 &emsp;&emsp;&emsp;0 &emsp;&emsp;&emsp;0<br>
- 2 &emsp;&emsp;&emsp;0 &emsp;&emsp;&emsp;2 &emsp;&emsp;&emsp;2<br>
- 3 &emsp;&emsp;&emsp;1 &emsp;&emsp;&emsp;4&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;3<br>
- 4 &emsp;&emsp;&emsp;1 &emsp;&emsp;&emsp;1 &emsp;&emsp;&emsp;0<br>
- 5 &emsp;&emsp;&emsp;3 &emsp;&emsp;&emsp;3 &emsp;&emsp;&emsp;0<br>
- 6 &emsp;&emsp;&emsp;2 &emsp;&emsp;&emsp;6 &emsp;&emsp;&emsp;4<br>
- 7 &emsp;&emsp;&emsp;3 &emsp;&emsp;&emsp;5 &emsp;&emsp;&emsp;2<br>
- 8 &emsp;&emsp;&emsp;5 &emsp;&emsp;&emsp;7&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;2<br>
- 9 &emsp;&emsp;&emsp;5 &emsp;&emsp;&emsp;9&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;4<br>
- 10 &emsp;&emsp;&emsp;7 &emsp;&emsp;&emsp;11 &emsp;&emsp;&emsp;4<br>
- 11 &emsp;&emsp;&emsp;8 &emsp;&emsp;&emsp;8&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;0<br>
- 12 &emsp;&emsp;&emsp;8 &emsp;&emsp;&emsp;10&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;2<br>
- 平均滞留时间为（ 0+2+3+0+0+4+2+2+4+4+0+2）/12=1.92<br>
 d.<br>
- 包名 到达时间 离开时间 滞留时间<br>
- 1&emsp;&emsp;&emsp; 0 &emsp;&emsp;&emsp;0 &emsp;&emsp;&emsp;0<br>
- 2 &emsp;&emsp;&emsp;0 &emsp;&emsp;&emsp;2 &emsp;&emsp;&emsp;2<br>
- 3 &emsp;&emsp;&emsp;1 &emsp;&emsp;&emsp;1&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;0<br>
- 4 &emsp;&emsp;&emsp;1 &emsp;&emsp;&emsp;5 &emsp;&emsp;&emsp;4<br>
- 5 &emsp;&emsp;&emsp;3 &emsp;&emsp;&emsp;3 &emsp;&emsp;&emsp;0<br>
- 6 &emsp;&emsp;&emsp;2 &emsp;&emsp;&emsp;7 &emsp;&emsp;&emsp;5<br>
- 7 &emsp;&emsp;&emsp;3 &emsp;&emsp;&emsp;4 &emsp;&emsp;&emsp;1<br>
- 8 &emsp;&emsp;&emsp;5 &emsp;&emsp;&emsp;9&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;4<br>
- 9 &emsp;&emsp;&emsp;5 &emsp;&emsp;&emsp;6&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;1<br>
- 10 &emsp;&emsp;&emsp;7 &emsp;&emsp;&emsp;10 &emsp;&emsp;&emsp;3<br>
- 11 &emsp;&emsp;&emsp;8 &emsp;&emsp;&emsp;8&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;0<br>
- 12 &emsp;&emsp;&emsp;8 &emsp;&emsp;&emsp;11&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;3<br>
- 平均滞留时间为（ 0+2+0+4+0+5+1+4+1+3+0+3）/12=1.92<br>
e.所有的平均滞留时间一样，但具体的每个包的滞留时间不一样
</strong>

><strong>P9</strong>Consider a datagram network using 8-bit host addresses. Suppose a router 
uses longest prefix matching and has the following forwarding table:<br>
Prefix Match Interface<br>
00 &emsp;&emsp;&emsp;0<br>
010&emsp;&emsp;&emsp; 1<br>
011 &emsp;&emsp;&emsp;2<br>
10&emsp;&emsp;&emsp; 2<br>
11 &emsp;&emsp;&emsp;3<br>
 For each of the four interfaces, give the associated range of destination host 
addresses and the number of addresses in the range.<br><br>

<strong>
00000000-00111111&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;:0<br>
01000000-01011111&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;:1<br>
01100000-01111111&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;:2<br>
10000000-10111111&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;:2<br>
11000000-11111111&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;:3<br>
0号端口的数量为2的六次方=64<br>
1号端口为2的5次方=32<br>
2号端口为2的六次方+2的五次方=96<br>
3号端口为2的6次方=64<br>
</strong>
