# Week9 Chapter 4

## P1

> Let’s review some of the terminology used in this textbook. Recall that the name of a transport-layer packet is segment and that the name of a link-layer packet is frame. What is the name of a network-layer packet? Recall that both routers and link-layer switches are called packet switches. What is the fundamental difference between a router and link-layer switch? Recall that we use the term routers for both datagram networks and VC networks.

Datagram

A router switch: A router forwards a packet based on the packet's IP address.

A link-layer switch: A link-layer switch forwards a packet based on the MAC address.

## P4

> Do the routers in both datagram networks and virtual-circuit networks use for- warding tables? If so, describe the forwarding tables for both classes of networks.

Yes, both datagram networks and virtual-circuit networks use forwarding tables.

The forwarding table in virtual-circuit networks has income interface, outgoing virtual-circuit number.

 The forwarding table in datagram networks has destination address, outgoing interface.	

## P6

> List some applications that would benefit from ATM’s CBR service model.

Video conference, interactive live multimedia applications, IP telephony.

## P9

>  Describe how packet loss can occur at input ports. Describe how packet loss at input ports can be eliminated (without using infinite buffers).

How packet loss can occur at input ports:

- The queue size at the input port grows large because of slow switching fabric speed thus exhausting router's buffer space
- Routers contains input ports. It is using to move packets through forwarding table.
- The forwarding table maintaince each router as well as a duplicate copy in the routing process with each input port.

How packet loss at input ports can be eliminated:

- If the switching fabric speed is  at least n times as fast as the input speed(n represents the number of input ports)
- If the size of the queue can be reduced.