# Week 9， Chapter 4



## P1

> Let’s review some of the terminology used in this textbook. Recall that the name of a transport-layer packet is segment and that the name of a link-layer packet is frame. What is the name of a network-layer packet? Recall that both routers and link-layer switches are called packet switches. What is the fundamental difference between a router and link-layer switch? Recall that we use the term routers for both datagram networks and VC networks

1. Datagram
2. A router switch forwards a packet based on the packet's IP
3. A link-layer switch forwards a packet based on the MAC address



## P4

> Do the routers in both datagram networks and virtual-circuit networks use for- warding tables? If so, describe the forwarding tables for both classes of networks

Yes. The forwarding tables in VC networks has income interface, outgoing VC number. The forwarding tables in datagram networks has destination address, outgoing interface.



## P6

> List some applications that would benefit from ATM’s CBR service model.

interactive live multimedia applications, IP telephony



## P9

>  Describe how packet loss can occur at input ports. Describe how packet loss at input ports can be eliminated (without using infinite buffers).

**Packet Loss at input ports:**

• Packet loss may occur at the input ports when the size of the queue becomes large.

• The slow speed of switching fabric will result in the increase in size of the queue.

• When the size of the queue is increased, the buffering space of the router will be completely used.

**Elimination of packet loss:**

• The slow speed of switching fabric will result in the increase in size of the queue, which indeed results in packet loss.

• Increase the switching fabric speed at least by n times faster than the input line speed in order to eliminate the packet loss.

• The variable n denotes the number of input ports.