## Week10 Homework

### Chapter 4 Problem 11

+ **question:**

    Consider a router that interconnects three subnets: 
    Subnet 1, Subnet 2, and Subnet 3. Suppose all of the interfaces in each of these three subnets are required to have the prefix 223.1.17/24. Also suppose that Subnet 1 is required to support at least 60 interfaces, Subnet 2 is to support at least 90 interfaces, and Subnet 3 is to support at least 12 interfaces. Provide three network addresses (of the form a.b.c.d/x) that satisfy these constraints.

+ **Answer:**

    + 32<60<64，64<90<128，8<12<16, so subnet masks are respectively 26,25,28.

    + Thus, the subnet address are:
        Subnet 1：223.1.17.0/26
        Subnet 2：223.1.17.128/25
        Subnet 3：223.1.17.64/28

### Chapter 4 Problem 20

+ **question:**

    In this problem, we’ll explore the impact of NATs on P2P applications. Suppose a peer with username Arnold discovers through querying that a peer with username Bernard has a file it wants to download. Also suppose that Bernard and Arnold are both behind a NAT. Try to devise a technique that will allow Arnold to establish a TCP connection with Bernard without application-specific NAT configuration. If you have difficulty devising such a technique, discuss why.

+ **Answer:**

    + In order to establish a direct TCP connection between Arnold and Bernard, either Arnold or Bernard must initiate a connection to the other. 
    + If we can know the either (source IP address, port #) to (NAT IP address, new port #) translation pair of them, then the another can initiate a connection to he. 
    + But if not know any application-specific NAT configuration and send SYN to NATs directly, then the NATs covering Arnold and Bernard would drop SYN packets arriving from the WAN side. Thus neither Arnold nor Bernard can initiate a TCP connection to the other if they are both behind NATs. 
        So It's impossible to devise a technique that will allow Arnold to establish a TCP connection with Bernard without application-specific NAT configuration.
