p40 : 

a) TCP slowstart is operating in the intervals [1,6] and [23,26]

b) TCP congestion avoidance is operating in the intervals [6,16] and [17,22]

c) By a triple duplicate ACK.  If there was a timeout, the congestion window size would have dropped to 1.

d) After the 22nd transmission round, segment loss is detected due to timeout, and hence the congestion window size is set to 1.

e) The initial value of ssthresh at the first transmission round is 32, since it is at this window size that slow start stops and congestion avoidance begins.

f) The threshold is set to half the value of the congestion window when packet loss is detected. When loss is detected during transmission round 16, the congestion windows size is 42. Hence the threshold is 21 during the 18th transmission round.

g) The threshold is set to half the value of the congestion window when packet loss is detected. When loss is detected during transmission round 22, the congestion windows size is 29. Hence the threshold is 14 (taking lower floor of 14.5) during the 24th transmission round.

h) During the 1st transmission round, packet 1 is sent; packet 2-3 are sent in the 2nd transmission round; packets 4-7 are sent in the 3rd transmission round; packets 8-15 are sent in the 4th transmission round; packets 16-31 are sent in the 5th transmission round; packets 32-63 are sent in the 6th transmission round; packets 64 – 96 are sent in the 7th transmission round.  Thus packet 70 is sent in the 7th transmission round.

i) The threshold will be set to half the current value of the congestion window (8)  when the loss occurred and congestion window will be set to the new threshold value + 3 MSS . Thus the new values of the threshold and window will be 4 and 7 respectively. 

j) threshold is 21, and congestion window size is 1. 

k) round 17, 1 packet; round 18, 2 packets; round 19, 4 packets; round 20, 8 packets; round 21, 16 packets; round 22, 21 packets. So, the total number is 52. 

p44 : 

a)  6 RTTS.

It takes 1 RTT to increase CongWin to 7 MSS; 2 RTTs to increase to 8 MSS;  3 RTTs to increase to 9 MSS; 4 RTTs to increase to 10 MSS; 5 RTTs to increase to 11 MSS; 6 RTTs to increase to 12 MSS.

b)  8.5 MSS/RTT.

In the first RTT 6 MSS was sent; in the second RTT 7 MSS was sent; in the third RTT 8 MSS was sent; in the fourth RTT 9 MSS was sent; in the fifth RTT, 10 MSS was sent; and in the sixth RTT, 11 MSS was sent.  Thus, we can say that the average throughput up to time 6 RTT was (6+7+8+9+10+11 MSS)/(6 RTT) = 8.5 MSS/RTT.