Homework

[TOC]

### Question 01 Chapter 3 Problem 40

Consider Figure 3.58. Assuming TCP Reno is the protocol experiencing the behavior shown above, answer the following questions. In all cases, you should provide a short discussion justifying your answer.

a. Identify the intervals of time when TCP slow start is operating.

b. Identify the intervals of time when TCP congestion avoidance is operating.

c. After the 16th transmission round, is segment loss detected by a triple duplicate ACK or by a timeout?

d. After the 22nd transmission round, is segment loss detected by a triple duplicate ACK or by a timeout?

e. What is the initial value of ssthresh at the first transmission round?

f. What is the value of ssthresh at the 18th transmission round?

g. What is the value of ssthresh at the 24th transmission round?

h. During what transmission round is the 70th segment sent?

i. Assuming a packet loss is detected after the 26th round by the receipt of a triple duplicate ACK, what will be the values of the congestion window size and of ssthresh?

j. Suppose TCP Tahoe is used (instead of TCP Reno), and assume that triple duplicate ACKs are received at the 16th round. What are the ssthresh and the congestion window size at the 19th round?

k. Again suppose TCP Tahoe is used, and there is a timeout event at 22nd round. How many packets have been sent out from 17th round till 22nd round, inclusive?

answer:

a. [1, 6] and [23, 26]

b. [6, 16] and [17, 22]

c. By a triple duplicate ACK.

d. By a timeout.

e. 32

f.  42 / 2 = 21

g. 29 / 2 = 14 

h.   t7.  p1 is sent during t1, p2~p3 are sent during t2, p4~p7 are sent during t3, p8~p15 are sent during t4, and so on. Then p70 will be sent during t7.

i.  ssthresh = 4, cwnd = ssthresh +3MSS = 7

j. Durng the 16th round ssthresh = cwnd/2 = 21, then cwnd = 1 and  goes int o slow start state. So during the 19th round ,ssthresh = 21, cwnd =4.

k. t17 : 1;  t18 : 2;  t19 : 4;  t20 : 8;  t21 : 16;  t22 : 21; then it would be 1+2+4+8+16+21=52



### Question 02 Chapter 3 Problem 44

Consider sending a large file from a host to another over a TCP connection that has no loss.

a. Suppose TCP uses AIMD for its congestion control without slow start. Assuming cwnd increases by 1 MSS every time a batch of ACKs is received and assuming approximately constant round-trip times, how long does it take for cwnd increase from 6 MSS to 12 MSS (assuming no loss events)?

b. What is the average throughout (in terms of MSS and RTT) for this connection up through time = 6 RTT?

answer: 

a. For each RTT adds one MSS, then it needs 6 RTT.

b. The average throughout = (6+7+8+9+10+11) / 6 = 8.5 MSS/RTT