# Homework of week 8

## Chapter 3, P40

*Consider Figure 3.61. Assuming TCP Reno is the protocol experiencing the
behavior shown above, answer the following questions. In all cases, you
should provide a short discussion justifying your answer.*

*a. Identify the intervals of time when TCP slow start is operating.  
b. Identify the intervals of time when TCP congestion avoidance is operating.  
c. After the 16th transmission round, is segment loss detected by a triple
duplicate ACK or by a timeout?  
d. After the 22nd transmission round, is segment loss detected by a triple
duplicate ACK or by a timeout?  
e. What is the initial value of ssthresh at the first transmission round?  
f. What is the value of ssthresh at the 18th transmission round?  
g. What is the value of ssthresh at the 24th transmission round?  
h. During what transmission round is the 70th segment sent?  
i. Assuming a packet loss is detected after the 26th round by the receipt of
a triple duplicate ACK, what will be the values of the congestion window
size and of ssthresh?  
j. Suppose TCP Tahoe is used (instead of TCP Reno), and assume that triple
duplicate ACKs are received at the 16th round. What are the ssthresh
and the congestion window size at the 19th round?  
k. Again suppose TCP Tahoe is used, and there is a timeout event at
22nd round. How many packets have been sent out from 17th round till
22nd round, inclusive?*

Answer a:  
Transmission Round [0, 6] and [23, 26]. In this period of time, window grows
exponentially.

Answer b:  
Transmission Round [6, 16] and [17, 22]. In this period of time, window grows
linearly.

Answer c:  
By triple duplicate ACK. Because the `cwnd` decreased by half.

Answer d:  
By a timeout. Because the `cwnd` resetted to 1 MSS.

Answer e:  
It was 32. The cwnd changed from growing exponentially to growing linearly
when it reached 32.

Answer f:  
It was 21. The `ssthresh` was changed to half of `cwnd` when previous
packet loss happens.

Answer g:  
It was 14. The `ssthresh` was changed to half of `cwnd` when previous
packet loss happens.

Answer h:  
Round #7. Round #1..6 transmitted 63 segments in total, while #7
transmitted 33 segments.

Answer i:  
`ssthresh` will be 4 (which is half of previous `cwnd`), `cwnd` will be 7
(which is `3 + ssthresh`).

Answer j:  
`sshthresh` will be 21 (which is half of `cwnd` at previous packet loss),
`cwnd` will be 4 (resetted to 1 at #17, grows exponentially till reaching
`ssthresh`).

Answer k:  
Detailed analysis:

- #17: `cwnd` <- 1, at previous packet loss.
- #18, `cwnd` <- 2, as it growing exponentially.
- #19, `cwnd` <- 4, as it growing exponentially.
- #20, `cwnd` <- 8, as it growing exponentially.
- #21, `cwnd` <- 16, as it growing exponentially.
- #22, `cwnd` <- 21, as it reached `ssthresh` (then start growing linearly).

In total, **52** packets have been sent.

## Chapter 3, P44

*Consider sending a large file from a host to another over a TCP connection
that has no loss.  
a. Suppose TCP uses AIMD for its congestion control without slow start.
Assuming cwnd increases by 1 MSS every time a batch of ACKs is
received and assuming approximately constant round-trip times, how long
does it take for cwnd increase from 6 MSS to 12 MSS (assuming no loss
events)?  
b. What is the average throughput (in terms of MSS and RTT) for this connection
up through time = 6 RTT?*

Answer a:  
6 RTT. Since `cwnd` increases 1 MSS / 1 RTT.

Answer b:  
At this situation, `cwnd` resets to 6 MSS when it is about to reach 12 MSS.
Thus average rate = `((6 + 11) * 6 / 2) / 6 = 8.5` MSS.
