# 王楚 2020302111389 第八周作业



## Chapter3 P40

> Consider Figure 3.61. Assuming TCP Reno is the protocol experiencing the behavior shown above, answer the following questions. In all cases, you should provide a short discussion justifying your answer.
>
> a. Identify the intervals of time when TCP slow start is operating
>
> b. Identify the intervals of time when TCP congestion avoidance is operating.
>
> c. After the 16th transmission round, is segment loss detected by a triple duplicate ACK or by a timeout?
>
> d. After the 22nd transmission round, is segment loss detected by a triple duplicate ACK or by a timeout?
>
> e. What is the initial value of *ssthresh* at the first transmission round?
>
> f. What is the value of *ssthresh* at the 18th transmission round?
>
> g. What is the value of *ssthresh* at the 24th transmission round?
>
> h. During what transmission round is the 70th segment sent?
>
> i. Assuming a packet loss is detected after the 26th round by the receipt of a triple duplicate ACK, what will be the values of the congestion window size and of *ssthresh*?
>
> j. Suppose TCP Tahoe is used(instead of TCP Reno), and assume the triple duplicate ACKs are received at the 16th round. What are the *ssthresh* and the congestion window size at the 19th round?
>
> k. Again suppose TCP Tahoe is used, and there is a timeout event at 22nd round. How many packets have been sent out from 17th round till 22nd round, inclusive?

a. 1 to 6, 23 to 26

b. 6 to 23

c. The segment loss detected by a triple duplicate ACK

d. timeout

e. 32

f. 21

g. 13

h. 7

i. 4

j. 21

k. 52



## Chapter3 P44

> Consider sending a large file from a host to another over a TCP connection that has no loss.
>
> a. Suppose TCP uses AIMD for its congestion control without slow start. Assuming *cwnd* increases by 1 MSS every time a batch of ACKs is received and assuming approximately constant round-trip times, how long does it take for *cwnd* increase from 6 MSS to 12 MSS (assuming no loss events)?
>
> b. What is the average throughout (in terms of MSS and RTT) for this connection up through time = 6 RTT?

a.  The following steps are take for cwnd to increase from 6 MSS to 12 MSS:

- 1 RTTs to to 7 MSS.

- 2 RTTs to 8 MSS.

- 3 RTTs to 9 MSS.

- 4 RTTs to 10 MSS.

- 5 RTTs to 11MSS.

- 6 RTTs to 12 MSS.

  Increasing from CWND = 6 to CWND = 12 takes 6 RTTs

b. 8.5MSS/RTT