# Homework Week8  
### Apr 2  

Chapter 3  

P40.   
Consider Figure 3.61. Assuming TCP Reno is the protocol experiencing the behavior shown above, answer the following questions. In all cases, you should provide a short discussion justifying your answer.  
a. Identify the intervals of time when TCP slow start is operating.  
b. Identify the intervals of time when TCP congestion avoidance is operating.  
c. After the 16th transmission round, is segment loss detected by a triple duplicate ACK or by a timeout?  
d. After the 22nd transmission round, is segment loss detected by a triple duplicate ACK or by a timeout?  
e. What is the initial value of ssthresh at the first transmission round?  
f. What is the value of ssthresh at the 18th transmission round?  
g. What is the value of ssthresh at the 24th transmission round?  
h. During what transmission round is the 70th segment sent?  
i. Assuming a packet loss is detected after the 26th round by the receipt of a triple duplicate ACK, what will be the values of the congestion window size and of ssthresh?  
j. Suppose TCP Tahoe is used (instead of TCP Reno), and assume that triple duplicate ACKs are received at the 16th round. What are the ssthresh and the congestion window size at the 19th round?  
k. Again suppose TCP Tahoe is used, and there is a timeout event at  22nd round. How many packets have been sent out from 17th round till 22nd round, inclusive?  

- Solution:  
a. The slow start times are from 1 to 6 and from 23 to 26. These are slow start times because the congestion window size is picking up at a slope, slower at first and becoming exponentially faster until it gets to a linear section and is no longer in slow start.  
b. This is between transmission rounds 6 and 16 and between rounds 17 and 23 where congestion window is linearly rising.  
c. It is a triple duplicate ACK because congestion decreases to a half.  
d. It is a timeout because congestion decreases to 1 and grow exponentially again.  
e. The initial value of ssthresh at the first transmission round is 32.  
f. The value of ssthresh at the 18th transmission round is 42 / 2 = 21.  
g. The value of ssthresh at the 24th transmission round is ceil(29 / 2) = 15.  
h. At the 7th transmission round is the 70th segment sent. 63 segments are sent at before the 7th tranmission and 33 segments are sent at the 7th segment.  
i. The values of the congestion window size and of ssthresh will be 8 / 2 = 4.  
j. Ssthresh is 42 / 2 = 21 and the congestion window size is 4 at the 19th round.  
k. Ssthresh at the 17 transmission round is 21. 1+2+4+8+16+21 = 52 packets are sent out from 17th round till 22nd round.  


P44.   
Consider sending a large file from a host to another over a TCP connection that has no loss.  
a. Suppose TCP uses AIMD for its congestion control without slow start. Assuming cwnd increases by 1 MSS every time a batch of ACKs is received and assuming approximately constant round-trip times, how long does it take for cwnd increase from 6 MSS to 12 MSS (assuming no loss events)?  
b. What is the average throughput (in terms of MSS and RTT) for this connection up through time = 6 RTT?  

- Solution:  
a. 12 - 6 = 6  
b. In the first RTT 6 MSS is sent. After 6 RTT, totally 6+7+8+9+10+11 = 51 MSS is sent. Average throughput = 51 / 6 = 8.5 MSS/RTT.